# Cubic: The Vault Pallet

The second pallet Composable is creating for our infrastructure (following our 
oracle pallet, Apollo) is for vaults, a critical DeFi component. The concept of 
a vault pallet does not currently exist in Polkadot. The hope is therefore that 
this vault pallet will set the standard for what vaults, that are a commonly 
used primitive in Ethereum decentralized finance, will be in the Polkadot and 
Kusama ecosystems.

## How Our Vaults Pallet Powers Our Infrastructure

Composable is working to deliver a comprehensive DeFi ecosystem to Polkadot and 
Kusama, and our vaults pallet will be a key driver in this endeavor.

In general, vaults act to combine user funds into a single managed pool that can 
then perform many additional functions including yield farming. Their primary 
purpose is to aggregate these funds, which reduces the gas fees that users must 
pay.

In the Composable ecosystem, users are able to deposit liquidity provisioning 
(LP) tokens into vaults created through our vaults pallet. Funds can then be 
routed to various strategies like those in other pallets, other smart contracts 
written in ink! (the language of Solidity), or even those in centralized 
finance. This means that funds can be sent to and from a number of ecosystems, 
including Polkadot, its canary network Kusama, Ethereum, and Cosmos. This 
relationship is depicted below:

![cubic use case diagram](./cubic-ucd.png)

## Use Cases

The intention is that Cubic will evolve to become core infrastructure for 
projects that will utilize vaults, such as AMMs, strategies, lending protocols, 
and other money legos. The broader hope is that with vault infrastructure, 
Ethereum projects that leverage vaults will have familiar infrastructure to be 
able to build pallet versions of their protocols. Through this goal, we 
anticipate that Cubic will set the standard for cross-chain vault 
infrastructure, for use by the broader Web 3.0 ecosystem.

## Additional Vault Pallet Details

### Vault Features

Through this infrastructure, our vaults are thus capable of the following three 
overarching functionalities:

* Deposit and withdrawal management
 
* Governance

* LP token share management

These can be applied to innumerable DeFi strategies based on the particular 
vault and project it belongs to.

### User Incentives

Providing assets to a vault grants the user xTokens (receipt tokens), which can 
be exchanged for the locked assets. This also supplies the user with voting 
rights. xTokens can be seen as shares, which are diluted when more users join 
the vault, and burned when users exit the vault. As seen in the Ethereum 
ecosystem, these receipt tokens could then be used as collateral for lending 
protocols etc.

### Vault Management

There will be some type of reaping mechanism to remove unprofitable and unused 
vaults, akin to storage rent in ink! smart contracts. Further details of this 
are to be released, though we are considering working with an endowment locked 
up by the fund manager, and later moving to having a part of the management fee 
to be used to pay for storage rent.

### Funds Allocation Strategy

The allocation of funds is determined by the particular vaultâ€™s strategy. 
Initially we will release a single strategy, which maps Account IDs to 
predetermined ratios (PerBill). Each account will therefore be able to withdraw 
up to ratio * vault balance from the vault to be used. The actual strategy is 
performed by the pallet/smart contract associated with the account ID.

### Interfaces

Pallets using the vault funds can depend on the traits exposed by the vault 
pallet to determine the requested fund allocation. Strategies in the Composable 
ecosystem should expose an interface for fund managers/councils to request 
re-balancing. The vault itself does not impose any interface for strategies, but 
instead exposes methods to relay data on how the strategy is performing. Thus, 
interfaces are up to the developer and their unique needs.

### Security

To ensure that funds can be rescued in the case of a negative event such as a 
theft or hack, vaults have different methods to halt functionality and return 
funds to LP token holders:

1. Pausing deposits and investments

2. Pausing deposits, investments, and withdrawals

3. Destroying the vault and returning all funds to the users

These extrinsics may only be called by the multisig account of the Picasso 
Network council to ensure they are utilized appropriately.

## Advantages Over Solidity Vaults

By providing vaults through a pallet, they become the core infrastructure of the 
Composable blockchain. Usage of the vaults incurs lower fees through the more 
optimized pallet infrastructure. Strategies on our chain may still be 
implemented as smart contracts or pallets. The latter is capable of far more 
complex operations, such as cross-chain investing, delivering advanced 
functionality to our ecosystem.

Through this novel infrastructure, Cubic offers a new functionality into the 
Polkadot ecosystem (cross-chain vaults), and is positioned to be both a critical 
component of Composable and a plethora of other dApps emerging in the 
cross-chain space.

