# Composable Overview

## Problems with a multi-chain DeFi environment

Composable Finance seeks to solve the challenge of siloed and fragmented 
liquidity brought about by a lack of interoperability in the blockchain space.

The DeFi ecosystem has grown to encompass multiple chains. These chains have 
their own respective value propositions, and are optimized for different 
use-cases. Their existence is not driven by speculation, but by value. As such, 
the DeFi ecosystem has become multi-chain.

The challenge with multiple chains is that, due to the nature of blockchain 
technology, assets and liquidity on these different chains become fragmented 
between them. Different blockchains, blockchain layers (such as Ethereum Layer 2 
solutions like Polygon), and protocols that exist cross-chain suffer as a result 
of this fragmented liquidity. It prevents the effective function of DeFi 
services and forces DeFi ecosystems into zero-sum competition. 

Current interoperability solutions are lacking in efficacy. Cross-chain bridges, 
a basic interoperability provision, are prone to hacks, are often unable to 
guarantee transfers, and can be prohibitively expensive. For example, in less 
than two years the exploits of bridges have totaled over $1.5 billion. 

Composable solves this by creating a natively interoperable ecosystem with a set 
of innovative, novel DeFi primitive services that are connected between and 
integrated with major blockchain ecosystems. As such, Composable allows the free 
flow of liquidity between the Cosmos network of blockchains, Ethereum Layer 1s 
and 2s, and the parachains in the DotSama ecosystem. It therefore solves the 
challenge of siloed and fragmented liquidity.

## Composable Finance’s vision

Composable’s vision is to enable a DeFi landscape that is blockchain and 
ecosystem agnostic. This means that users and developers are able to operate in 
the most effective and optimal manner, and are indifferent to the underlying 
chain.

Blockchain agnosticism understands interoperability along a spectrum that 
inevitably progresses, and is viewed as the furthest conclusion of that 
spectrum. In such an environment, DeFi assets are not constrained by the chain 
or layer they sit on. Instead, there is easy transfer of assets cross-chain and 
cross-layer, as well as active communication between them. 

Composable’s vision for blockchain agnosticism is distinguished by its aim for 
applications to be able to function in a distributed manner across chains and 
layers. In this future, applications exist on multiple chains and interoperate 
in a seamless manner.

Ultimately, Composable Finance seeks to build a cross-chain future that 
overcomes challenges of siloed liquidity and provides better returns to users. 
It is working to accomplish this through the Picasso network, and the Composable 
Parachain.

## Tech stack overview

![tech-stack-overview](./tech-stack-overview.png)

Composable’s technical stack is composed of novel reinventions of the virtual 
machine, routing layer, bridge, and application layer.

### *Transfer availability layer*

Composable does not have a traditional bridge. Instead, it has the Mosaic 
transfer availability layer. Mosaic forecasts liquidity demands and dynamically 
re-balances liquidity across ecosystems in order to complete asset transfer. 
Where this process is too time consuming, just-in-time liquidity bots are able 
to bridge any gaps, ensuring guaranteed transfer of assets even in large 
transactions.

### *Routing layer*

Composable’s Routing Layer, available for use through the Composable Parachain, 
is able to perfectly select the optimal route for the transfer of assets across 
a network of bridges, chains, and layers, to ensure their transfer to the 
destination layer or chain with lowest cost, and highest speed, backed by the 
security of Polkadot.

### *Cross-Chain Virtual Machine (XCVM)*

Composable’s XCVM functions as a place for developers to create smart contracts 
that span multiple chains and ecosystems. Though different ecosystems have 
siloed smart contracts, and often require different languages to write smart 
contracts, the XCVM enables developers to write smart contracts that are 
cross-chain and layer in a single to use, accessible interface. In addition, the 
contract is written in Rust, without the need to learn multiple languages.

### *Application Layer*

Composable’s application layer makes use of composable pallets through the 
Substrate framework. As such, they are easy to create, deploy, and combine 
together or ‘stack’ in order to create novel applications. In addition, 
Composable has deployed a host of DeFi primitives that are ready to be used and 
combined by developers. Finally, once deployed on Picasso, applications can then 
be graduated to the Composable Parachain.

