# The Composable Parachain

## What is the Composable Parachain?

The Composable Parachain is a Polkadot parachain bolstered by the Polkadot relay chain and thus, leverages Polkadot’s 
value proposition for the Composable ecosystem. As such, the Composable Parachain is highly secure, robust and efficient
and can handle institutional scale throughput. The Composable Parachain provides a solution to several issues that 
currently plague the industry. Instead of splintered cross-chain communication hubs, Composable brings a clear pathway 
for adaptive and scalable cross-chain communication across new and existing ecosystems. 


## What is the vision for the Composable Parachain?

Polkadot itself serves as a critical basis to underpin our infrastructure and its modular composability. To facilitate 
cross-ecosystem communication, a higher security environment is necessary to ensure such transfers and communication are
not only issued from a source, but also passed on to a routing layer that allows for a decentralized pathfinding 
methodology. In short, the part of our infrastructure that provides an accessibility layer to access our infrastructure 
and is the unification of isolated pieces that comprise our holistic approach to cross-chain communication requires the 
high-security model that comes with Polkadot parachains.

Polkadot offers plug-and-play security, allowing Composable to focus on building its ecosystem and leaving the security 
to Polkadot’s validators. By leveraging parachains we do not have to recruit our validators for security, which gives us
more excellent finality guarantees and lowers the risk of cross-chain transaction failures.

The enhanced security through the Polkadot offering enables developers within the Composable ecosystem to support 
enterprises, governments and TradFi organisations with a seamless gateway to DeFi. Users and developers can thus do more
than just move their assets around between different applications on different chains that they select. By specifying 
their end goals, users and developers utilize our infrastructure that orchestrates the most efficient pathway 
irrespective of chain or application. This is designed to result in the maximization of yield, and the most efficient 
deployment of functions across suitable ecosystems.

The XCVM is Composable’s native cross-chain smart contract framework. It enables triggering smart contract calls that 
can exist across different ecosystems without replicating protocols or building new ones for specific chains. The 
Composable Routing Layer selects the optimal route for asset transfer between a source and destination.
We are also exploring the possibility of the XCVM becoming a rollup-based environment on a substrate-based chain which 
would be the first of its kind. For example, a contract would be deployed on the spree module of the XCVM but then 
executing the transaction in a zk-rollup-based execution environment.

The Composable Parachain does not use a traditional bridge. Instead, Mosaic serves as a liquidity and transfer 
availability layer that is able to facilitate asset transfer between chains and layers, irrespective of size, in a safe 
and secure manner. Mosaic accomplishes this through a process of forecasting, and dynamic liquidity re-balancing. Mosaic
is designed to be the first EVM \<\> Substrate bridge to support the transfer of assets across several ecosystems whilst 
avoiding failures in cross-chain transactions. 

The Composable Parachain will also integrate Centauri, our Substrate–IBC bridge to support cross-ecosystem communication
between IBC-enabled blockchains and the Dotsama ecosystem.


![composable_parachain_architecture](../../static/img/parachains/composable-parachain-architecture.jpg)


## How the Composable Parachain synergizes with Picasso?

Within the Composable ecosystem, we have established a parachain on Kusama, known as Picasso and on Polkadot, known as 
Composable Parachain. The idea for a dual-parachain narrative came about when we realized crypto networks are designed 
without a stable launch process. As such they rely on testnets for stability and performance testing. In the case of the
DotSama ecosystem, Kusama is treated as such a testnet even though its capabilities and potential span beyond simply 
being a testnet for Polkadot. 

As the canary network of the Composable Parachain, Picasso serves as the development and deployment hub for modular 
dApps. Developers on Picasso can leverage our 
[interoperable infrastructure](https://medium.com/composable-finance/understanding-composables-modularly-interoperable-infrastructure-e3986fa58d21) 
to streamline the development process while Composable Labs provides grants and technical support to further enable 
aspiring founders to launch innovative pallets on Picasso. As such, Picasso acts as a springboard for the development 
and deployment of pallets that are natively cross-chain. 

Identical pallets on the two separate chains will communicate with one another using IBC or XCM depending on which is 
available at the time and has the most efficient performance. As a result, both parachains will remain up-to-date and 
consistent with one another in real-time enabling seamless communication and transaction matching between pallets across
networks. This new dual parachain approach means users can operate the parachains in concert with one another, resulting
in maximized efficiency instead of any redundant use of pallets. 

We designed our strategy to allow pallets, builders, and ultimately end-users, to leverage both parachains 
simultaneously to ensure the stability and increased efficiency of cross-chain functions. This new dual parachain 
approach means users can operate the parachains in concert with one another, resulting in maximized efficiency instead 
of any redundant use of pallets. Thus, Composable becomes the **contract chain**, and Picasso the **pallets chain**.  
The combination of available liquidity from the Polkadot and Kusama ecosystems would greatly increase the earning power 
of users within the Composable and Picasso networks. This would also, in theory, increase the capital efficiency of both
parachains.