# Vault Boosts

**For transparency, we are continuing to publicize the parachain vault approach 
we took when bidding for a Kusama parachain. This strategy is no longer being 
implemented to support Kusama parachian procurement, as this milestone has 
already been achieved. Please note that the information in italicized text below 
is outdated for this reason:**

## *Vault Boost Overview*

*We are introducing a boost on participating in our parachain vault strategy 
long-term, increasing users’ earned Composable Tokens by 25%.*

*Composable has deployed this boost to users who stay staked/deposited in our 
vault strategy, with maximal rewards being delivered to those staking for 90 
days.*

*The boost offers major rewards: up to a 25% increase on users’ earned Composable 
Tokens (based on nominal amount), vested over one year.* 

*This staking and boosting method replaces our previous plans for a lock 
contract, and will continue as the format for our vault strategy until the 
auction, allowing the continual generation of yield for users and KSM/DOT.*

*As an additional bonus, these staking participants will have first access to 
our parachain vault strategy launchpad, which is where we will extend our vault 
strategy for use by other projects seeking to earn DOT/KSM to purchase their own 
parachain. The structure will be the same in our offering to other protocols, 
delivering another means for users to be rewarded for participating in parachain 
procurement.* 

*Vault strategy participants will also have early access to other strategies 
that we are planning to launch; we have a variety of innovative partnerships 
that will be announced in the future, wherein we will create new and valuable 
opportunities for our users. Stay tuned for more updates on these partnerships, 
and how you can participate - and make sure you stake in our vaults soon to gain 
early access.*

## *Boost Details*

### *Staking Period:*

*New stakes can participate in boosted staking, but the full 25% boost is earned 
only after staking for the full program duration, and other boosts are delivered 
proportional to the number of days staked.*

### *Withdrawals:*

*Withdrawing from the parachain vault strategy will cause the user to forfeit 
the boost that is proportionate to the amount withdrawn and the time they have 
staked.*
